TAVI stands for
transcatheter aortic valve implantation.
This is a new procedure for replacing a
faulty aortic valve in the heart.
The aortic valve opens to permit
blood to flow from the left ventricle
into the aorta,
which carries blood to the rest of the body.
The valve closes between heartbeats
to prevent blood from flowing
back into the ventricle
If the aortic valve does not
open or close properly,
the heart has to work harder to pump
blood into the aorta.
This can cause symptoms such as
chest pain and shortness of breath
and may ultimately lead to heart failure.
Treatment of a faulty aortic valve
generally requires open heart surgery.
The surgeon cuts through the chest bone,
stops the heart,
removes the faulty valve,
and replaces it with a mechanical
or biological valve.
With TAVI, an artificial valve
is implanted via a catheter,
which is navigated to the heart through an
artery via an incision in the skin.
The femoral artery in the leg is
most often used,
but others such as the subclavian artery
beneath the collar bone may also be used.
The replacement valve is placed
inside the existing valve.
The procedure is performed on the beating heart,
without the need for a heart lung machine.
Both procedure and recovery time
are significantly reduced.